Glenumbra, the westernmost region of High Rock, contains the city-states of Daggerfall and Camlorn, the great cemetery of Cath Bedraud, and the wild areas of Hag Fen, Glenumbra Moors, and the forests of Daenia.
The Vaults of Madness are the masterpiece of the infamous Mad Architect, who is said to be one of the few entities ever to serve multiple Daedric Princes and profit from it. How he is paid for his "services" is a matter of wild and horrible conjecture.
Situated at the head of the strategic Iliac Bay, Stormhaven is the geographic center of High Rock, and also the home of the great trading city of Wayrest, capital of the Daggerfall Covenant.
This northwestern region of High Rock contains some of the province's most dramatic terrain, including towering, flinty crags, windswept moors, and narrow canyons. Many folk find the environment oppressive, even threatening.
The ancient Dwarven city of Volenfell was long lost to the sands of the Alik'r Desert. But its ruins have recently been discovered, prompting a race between scholars and treasure-hunters to be the first to search its storied depths.
Even by the standards of Malabal Tor, something is not right about the growth of the forest in this vicinity. It doesn't seem unhealthy—on the contrary, it seems vigorous, but in an unwholesome way.
The Bjoulsae River, where it widens as it enters the Iliac Bay, flows past dozens of small islands that have long served as refuges for smugglers and sea raiders. The most notorious of these hideouts is Blackheart Haven.
The ashfall from the volcanoes of the Velothi Mountains and from great Ash Mountain itself is Stonefalls' bane and benefit, fertilizing the soil where the land isn't too arid to grow crops. It was here that the recent invading army from Akavir met its bloody end.
The fertile valleys of Deshaan are home to lush fungal forests, deep kwama mines, and broad pastures where netches and guar graze. But all pales before the magnificence of Mournhold, home of the Tribunal and capital of the Ebonheart Pact.
Malabal Tor is the northwest region of Valenwood, on the coast of the Abecean Sea and the Strid River estuary. Its capital is Silvenar, the spiritual home of all Wood Elves.
These caves have the distinction of being the most famous kwama mines in Deshaan. Dark Elves consider kwama eggs a delicacy, and those harvested from Darkshade Caverns are particularly prized by Dunmeri gourmets.
Warriors from all over Tamriel whisper about the Blessed Crucible, the hidden arena in the mountains of Skyrim where the mighty contend for fame, wealth, and the fabled Brimstone Crown.
This region takes its name from its most famous feature, the Bangkorai Pass, which has served as High Rock's defense against the wild raiders of Hammerfell for countless generations. The uplands north of the pass and the desert to the south are both ruled from the port city of Evermore.
One of the "Old Holds," Eastmarch was among the first regions of Skyrim settled by the Nords when they arrived from Atmora. Its capital, Windhelm, is the oldest continuously inhabited human settlement in Tamriel, and was founded by Ysgramor himself.
Skyrim's southernmost hold has a relatively temperate climate, thanks to northern mountains that block the frigid gales of the Sea of Ghosts, and warming volcanoes in the Velothi Mountains to the east. Its capital is Riften, on the shores of broad Lake Honrich.
Though there are fertile fields on the coast near the capital city of Sentinel, it is the arid expanses of the interior that have captured the hearts of the rugged Redguards. The Alik'r is rich in mineral resources, but its fierce creatures and harsh terrain are daunting to most.
Greenshade, a land of flowing rivers and fertile plains, occupies the southwest portion of Valenwood. The port city of Woodhearth sits upon the western shore, while other towns include Marbruk and Greenheart.
On the border with Morrowind, the Shadowfen region has had more contact with Tamrielic civilization than most of Black Marsh—due primarily to the activities of the Dunmeri slavers who once operated out of the city of Stormhold. Now the Argonians are back in charge.
The name of these Ayleid ruins implies they were abandoned because of encroaching tree roots. But the Wood Elves whisper that the sundering roots were not those of normal Grahtwood trees.
When the Daedra-worshiping Ayleids were driven from Cyrodiil after Alessia's Slave Rebellion, many of the Wild Elf clans took refuge in Valenwood. One of the foremost of those clans was granted the right to excavate dwelling-halls under Elden Root itself.
This place's forbidding black towers are visible for leagues, even through Rivenspire's drifting mists. Yet the local inhabitants never mention it, behaving as if it doesn't even exist. But the Crypt of Hearts is no illusion or mirage—it is solid and all too real.
Surrounded by sand bars and shifting channels, this island in the Strid estuary has long been a haven for pirates, raiders, and fugitives from law enforcement. It has never been fully explored by any civilized authority.
Sanguine is the Daedric Prince of debauchery and dark passions. In his demesne, the revelry never ends—but it is a place where all pleasure is mixed with malice.
The underground city built by the Rulanyil clan after they were driven from Cyrodiil is one of the most impressive Ayleid ruins in all Valenwood. Scholars believe the Rulanyil originally came from Vilverin, an Ayleid site on the shores of Lake Rumare.
The Pirates of the Abecean Sea are the most notorious buccaneers in all of Tamriel. A loose confederation of crews with elected captains, most consider Stros M'Kai their home port, though they're liable to be found anywhere from Senchal to the Iliac Bay.
The name the Ayleid Elves gave this place when they constructed its subterranean halls is long forgotten. Modern Bretons know it by the name of the Bonesnap Goblin Tribe, who have occupied the site and turned the ancient halls to their own sordid ends.
The Ayleid ruins of Dwynnarth that grin down from the bluffs above Hag Fen were plundered and emptied out generations ago. But it seems there are forgotten mine tunnels beneath the lowest levels of Dwynnarth that might not be quite so empty.
Wayrest is justifiably proud of the commodious modern sewers that drain the city's wastes into the Iliac Bay. But the curving conduits beneath the streets contain dark secrets unsuspected by those who walk in the light of day above.
The Second Empire made some advances into the periphery of Black Marsh, but they didn't stay long. Arx Corinium, once an Imperial fort, is now occupied by denizens of the deep swamp—and even stranger things.
King Emeric has ruled Wayrest so long and so well that his city has become almost an extension of himself. It is with him at all times, even—perhaps especially—when he sleeps.
The Orcs of the Daggerfall Covenant are mainly worshipers of Mauloch who, according to his adherents, is not by any means a Daedric Prince. But there are others, unaffiliated clans and outlaws, who worship Malacath, a deity all recognize as a Daedra.
The great cemetery of Cath Bedraud has been the burial ground of the Breton nobility for millennia. Now the resting place of the Breton kings has been defiled by the writhing vines and dark necromancy of Angof the Gravesinger.
The halls of Bisnensel were built by a clan of Ayleid refugees who fled the Alessian Reforms in Cyrodiil. Old tales associate it with Laloriaran Dynar, the so-called Last King of the Ayleids.
According to those who study the longlost culture of the Dwarves, "Razak" was a fairly common Dwemeri name. Scholars are divided on whether it means "precision engineer" or "tonal modulator."
Not all Wood Elves are happy about Valenwood joining the Aldmeri Dominion. Some fear for their beloved forests, while others fear their heritage and traditions will be diluted or replaced. A few groups have retreated to refuges deep in the jungle.
Nature has returned to reclaim the City of Ash. An unsealed portal still threatens, and only a few remain to defend against it.
The Imperial province of Cyrodiil dominates central Tamriel. With the Empire's collapse, armies of the Dominion, Covenant, and Pact have all invaded Cyrodiil, vying for the Imperial throne and control of the greatest prize in the land.
The Barsaebic Ayleids who built Loriasel intended it as a site for the veneration of the Ten Ancestors. The Lizard-Folk who have inherited the ruined amphitheater have put it to uses the Wild Elves never envisioned.
Somewhere within these tumbledown Chimer ruins is the secret alchemical laboratory known as the Apothecarium.
The Tribunal Temple in Mournhold is the center of theopolitical power in Morrowind, and acts as a cathedral to the Living Gods of the Dark Elves: Almalexia, Vivec, and Sotha Sil.
Once the subterranean temple beneath Eidolon's Hollow was one of the holiest sites of Chimer worship of the Good Daedra. But it was long ago forsaken by the Elves of Morrowind when they turned their devotion to the Living Gods of the Tribunal.
Towering over central Stonefalls, the great volcano known as Ash Mountain spews smoke and lava in a continual state of eruption. It's said to be honeycombed with caves and lava tubes, some of which hide ancient and perilous secrets.
Guarding the pass to the Rift in Skyrim, Fort Virak is garrisoned by elite Dark Elf soldiers tasked with the defense of Stonefalls' western border. Placed squarely athwart the main route western armies must take to invade Morrowind, the old fortress has survived many a siege.
After a series of mysterious collapses, the maze of hallways beneath Fort Virak was walled off and abandoned sometime during the Akaviri Potentate.
This jagged volcanic pinnacle towers over the granite ridge that divides Stonefalls from Deshaan. Dormant for generations, the Tormented Spire has recently rumbled back to life, spewing smoke and sending the Dark Elves of Varanis scrambling for shelter.
High in the clouds of ash and smoke is the summit of the Tormented Spire, where among splintered crags and quake-shattered walls one can clearly see how the peak earned its name.
Once the Prophet was a man of vigor and strength. Some harrowing experience has aged and diminished him, leaving him blind and almost feeble.
Coldharbour is a realm of prisons within prisons, where all the imprisoned work without cease at executing the schemes of the Lord of Domination.
Mannimarco's stronghold in Coldharbour, the Castle of the Worm is a monument to the necromancer's hubris. Built by soul-shriven slaves and dark magics, this castle is the final stop for countless innocents before their souls are stolen, turning them into mindless, undead slaves.
"Wry without equal, Sheogorath holds in his realm giggling loons, flamboyant auteurs, and craven mutilators. The Mad Prince will ply profitless bargains and promote senseless bloodshed for nothing more than the joy of another's confusion, tragedy, or rage." — 16 Accords of Madness
The mystery of the Dwarves and their sudden disappearance is so compelling that even non-scholars have been known to devote their lives—and their fortunes—to studying their history and collecting Dwemeri objects. These obsessives are known derisively as "Dwarf-Hounds."
The Dwarves tapped the heat at the heart of Nirn for many purposes. They used steam to warm their subterranean cities and to motivate their devices. To forge their superb metals, they needed such intense heat that it could only come from molten lava.
For the Dunmer, Molag Bal is one corner of the House of Troubles, and the arch-enemy of the "Good Daedra" Boethiah. For the Bosmer, he is the terrible demon who consumed Gil-Var-Delle. To some Ayleid clans he was Mola Gbal, and worthy of veneration.
Like most major Tamrielic cities, a system of subterranean sewers service the city of Mournhold. Built thousands of years ago and extended, repaired, and maintained over the centuries, whole sections of the sewers have been entirely forgotten and are now unknown to the city administrators.
The vaults beneath the Sunscale xanmeers were built by a long-gone Argonian tribe in honor of Sithis, the "Dark Husband." They are said to contain tests for those who think to withstand the call of the abyss.
Many regard the heavy curved vaults of the Dark Elves' Daedric shrines as brutal and oppressive, but the Dunmer find them comfortable. "If you consider disaster inevitable, then survivability is a key virtue," says Mournhold architect Nyd Drotho.
The thought-processes of the Hist are alien to those of all other sentient creatures of Nirn, so strange that it may be a mistake to regard them as "intelligent" at all.
This uncanny pocket realm of Oblivion is a nightmarish forest ruled by the mysterious Crow Mother. It's like Tamriel, yet unlike—for the Daedra cannot create, only imitate, and their simulacra of mortal realms are always twisted and exaggerated.
For dread Molag Bal, it is not enough that his enslaved minions labor ceaselessly on his behalf. They must also be made to suffer.
The marshy lowlands of the Shivering Isles are known as Dementia, and represent the darker side of Sheogorath's personality. The islands are studded with ruins from many civilizations, all shrouded in mist and encrusted in giant fungus.
Sheogorath is associated with a number of recurring Tamrielic artifacts: the polymorphing wand called Wabbajack; the Staff of the Everscamp, which summons scamp companions; Gambolpuddy, or the Ambiguous Glove; and the cursed utensil known as the Fork of Horripilation.
This crumbling ruin, abandoned since the middle of the First Era, was said to have been built upon the foundations of even older structures. Its purpose, whatever it was, has been long forgotten.
The honored Breton royalty of the last three thousand years has been buried at the great cemetery of Cath Bedraud. But occasionally there has been a king or queen whom it seemed more appropriate to bury … elsewhere. Spaces are reserved for these unsavory rulers in the Tomb of Lost Kings.
Breagha-Fin - "Fanciful legends abound regarding the mysterious caves of Breagha-Fin, tales of ghost-mammoths, enchanted relics, even skeletal giants. But the folk of Rivenspire are notorious for their overactive imaginations." —Phrastus of Elinhir
Everyone knows the fortress at Bangkorai Pass guards the way between the Fallen Wastes and the uplands around Evermore. What the peasants of Bangkorai know, especially those who don't want to pay the toll at the Pass, is that there's another route linking the two regions.
Redguard stories say that when the Ra Gada first arrived on these shores, they found Nilata still inhabited by Elves. Having fought the Lefthanded Elves on Yokuda for a thousand years, wherever the newcomers found Elves in Hammerfell, they exterminated them.
Redguard tradition holds that when the souls of great warriors travel on to the Far Shores, they live forever in honor and glory in the Hall of Heroes.
The labyrinth of Silyanorn was excavated by the same Ayleids who built the foundations of Stormhold. Its name literally means "acorn," but the word also seems to have been used by the Barsaebics to mean "library."
Ruins of Ten-Maur-Wolk - When the Tribunal replaced the "Good Daedra" in Morrowind, some rebel Dark Elves who worshiped Boethiah fled south into Black Marsh, where they built the shrine of Tenmorvuk. The Dunmer who built it are gone, but the name lives on as Ten-Maur-Wolk.
Stillrise is proof that some Kothringi worshiped the Daedric Princes, as it was a tribe that followed Clavicus Vile who delved the halls of the Odious Chapel.
The human tribes of the Kothringi survived in Black Marsh as long as they did by becoming opportunists, folk who took advantage of what other peoples left behind. They built the village of Zuuk atop the much older Ayleid foundations of Sul.
The Second Empire tried to incorporate Black Marsh into the rest of Tamriel, but the Imperials weren't sure what it was good for. Eventually the bureaucrats of Imperial City decided it was a good place to build prisons, sites where prisoners of all sorts could be sent to be forgotten.
After his new city of Sentinel was attacked by pirates from the Abecean Sea, the Grandee Yaghoub decided he would build a fortified subterranean storehouse where the Alik'r's greatest treasures could be kept safe. Thus was built the Impervious Vault.
Salas En contains ruins from three different cultures: first, the unknown clan of Ayleids who initially built the site in the Merethic Era; second, the Corelanya High Elves who occupied it early in the First Era; and most recently, the Yokudan colonists who came with the Ra Gada.
Gem fanciers will tell you that the finest amethysts come from the Alik'r Desert—and the finest amethysts from the Alik'r come from the Kulati Mines.
A burial crypt of the noble Indoril family, one of the Great Houses of the Dark Elves of Morrowind. It's said that in times of trouble the House Dunmer dead are unquiet in their tombs, and disapprove of trespassers.
The dungeons beneath Fort Arand are both sturdy and commodious, constructed during the First Era in the Dunmeri style known as "Responsible Architecture" to plans by the famed architect Guylaine Marilie. Sadly, in recent times they have not been well maintained.
The best-known example of the bizarre land-coral found along the coasts of Morrowind's Inner Sea is the strange conglomeration in Stonefalls known as Vivec's Antlers. Sensitive Dark Elves claim that the land-coral is both self-aware and thoughtful.
For many lifetimes, the reliquary vaults beneath Heimlyn Keep have been used to seal away objects of mystical potency too dangerous to be allowed to circulate in the world at large. The guardians of the reliquary have long been chosen from House Telvanni, wise in ancient magic.
Iliath Temple was a shrine to Azura before it was converted to worship of the Tribunal in 1E 670. There are abandoned mines beneath the temple grounds, a source of the ebony ore coveted by armorers and weaponsmiths until they were worked out.
The burial crypts of the noble Dres family, one of the Great Houses of the Dark Elves, were excavated beneath Kragenmoor in the middle of the First Era by Argonian and Khajiiti slaves.
The Dwarven ruins of Mzithumz are well known to house constructs and automatons that are still active and mobile—which makes them far too dangerous to enter as far as the locals are concerned, despite the resale value of Dwarven mechanisms and parts.
Originally excavated to serve as burial vaults for the noble Redoran family, the works beneath Tal'Deic Fortress were abandoned after Grandmaster Llerlu inspected them and found the space "small, constricted, and insufficently imposing for the honored dead of House Redoran."
The Narsis Ruins include the foundations of the first structures built here when the Chimer came out from Summerset, and the new town was known as "Narsis-Where-All-Fervently-Praise-the-Prophet-Veloth." Eventually the name was shortened.
The cave in Eidolon's Hollow leads to the now-buried Halls of Veneration, where the Chimer of an earlier era worshiped the Daedric Princes heralded as the "Good Daedra" by the Prophet Veloth.
The Shad Astula Academy was built on the foundations of much older buildings, and some of those underhalls are still in use—including the library vaults accessible through the offices of the Arch-Mage.
Though not as famous a kwama mine as Darkshade Caverns, Deepcrag Den's proximity to Mournhold makes for fresher eggs for the city's markets—an advantage over mines transporting eggs from farther away.
The Dwarven site of Bthanual is remarkably well preserved, but its function is a matter of hot debate among scholars of Dwemer culture. Some hold that it is a magico-technical weapons factory, while others believe it was a repair site for Dwarven constructs such as spiders.
In the early 24th century of the First Era a trove of iron ore was found beneath the hills of northern Glenumbra by the celebrated Pinifred Lode-Finger. A great mine was delved to dig out the ore, and the town of Crosswych was founded to house the miners.
Reachmen are considered vile heathens by the civilized peoples of Tamriel: they renounce the Eight and mock all of the Aedra, singing praises to the Daedra instead. Worship varies from clan to clan, but the most popular Daedric Prince is Hircine, the source of their dark nature magic.
The Nord ruins here date back to the dark days of the Dragon Priests—but these days the vaults are infested by members of the Cult of the Black Worm.
On the border between Skyrim and Morrowind, Mount Trolhetta has changed hands many times over the centuries. Early in the First Era, a clan of Chimer built an extensive Daedric shrine on its peak, much of which still stands.
Beneath the Daedric Shrine on the peak are lava tunnels that twist and wind through the mountain's core. No one knows their full extent.
When precious metals were discovered in Lost Knife Cave, the Windhelm Consortium Trading Company established the Lost Knife mining camp and secured mining rights to the area. The mine turned a profit in record time and continues to supply ore to all of Eastmarch.
There are two types of draugr: corpses animated by a necromancer, who has imbued them with summoned spirits, and those restless dead who rise and walk for some inscrutable purpose of their own.
The definition of the Atmoran term "Wittestadr" is a matter of scholarly debate. Phrastus of Elinhir translates it as "Whit's Daughter," but Lady Cinnabar of Taneth believes it has a meaning of darker import: "Wit Shatter."
The ice caverns of Skyrim do not melt, even in Mid Year. Some say the cold that keeps them frozen wells up out of the depths of Nirn itself.
Located on strategic high ground overlooking the main roads to Windhelm, Morvunskar has been the site of a series of fortifications, and a larger, stone fort is currently planned. Fittingly, many great Nord warriors have been buried in the vaults beneath the walls.
Scholars of the ancient Dwemer believe the buried city of Mzulft was built as some sort of vast dedicated manufacturing site—but dedicated to what, no one is quite sure. Based on the number of traps and constructs defending it, the Dwarves clearly considered it vital.
Most locals who've dared to venture into Cragwallow's tunnels say it's just a skeever-infested cave, but some, who've gone deeper, swear that parts of it seem to have been worked and excavated.
Originally an island in the Summerset archipelago, Eyevea disappeared from Tamriel thousands of years ago, spirited away by Sheogorath into his realm of the Shivering Isles.
Like the High Elves, the Sea Elves also came from Old Aldmeris. But where the Altmer settled in the paradise of Summerset, the Maormer ended up in low, marshy, and insect-infested Pyandonea—and the Sea Elves have never forgiven the High Elves for it.
When the Daedra-worshiping Ayleids fled from Alessia's Slave Rebellion in Cyrodiil, many of the clans went south into Valenwood. Legend has it that the Abamath Ayleids drove a tribe of Wood Orcs out an existing cave system and converted it to their own uses.
Since the inking of the Ebonheart Pact, the trade in enslaved Argonians has been outlawed … but it has not been eradicated. The slavers have merely gone underground—literally, in the case of those using the Ayleid halls of Varakun as their lair.
None know today what lost cult of Daedra worshipers built the original shrine in these caverns, nor what they called it. But the lair the Argonians call Broken Tusk exudes an almost palpable sense of the evil that's been done there over the ages.
Those who call the Argonians "primitives" would do well to consider the permanence and elegance of their stonework, built for eternity despite the relentless Black Marsh rot. The still-solid corridors of ancient Atanaz are an instructive example.
Chid-Moska Ruins - Argonian scholars are uncertain whether the Chid-Moska xanmeer should be considered part of the larger Xal Ithix complex, or if it is a separate site built by an even more ancient tribe of Lizard-Folk.
When the Dark Elves freed their Argonian slaves, some of the Lizard-Folk assumed control of the Dunmeri ventures where they had been laboring in bondage. Not all these ventures have been successful.
Tales say that Gandranen was built by an Ayleid sorcerer, a worshiper of Hermaeus Mora who so loved books that she created a series of magical halls that would attract books from across Tamriel, no matter where—or when—hey were published.
Bleakrock is an island off the northeast coast of Skyrim between Windhelm and Solstheim. The hardy Nords who inhabit Bleakrock are mostly farmers and fisherfolk. A small contingent of Pact soldiers keeps a sharp lookout for pirates and raiders.
Bal Foyen, on the southern coast of Morrowind's Inner Sea, was a wild expanse of marshland until recently. Now much of it has been turned over to the Dark Elves' former Argonian slaves, who plant saltrice and herd guar in the former wastes.
These extensive caverns in the volcanic rock beneath Stonefalls were once used for unknown purposes by the ancient Chimer, but were abandoned by the Elves long ago. Now they are the haunt of Goblins and other denizens of the underworld.
In the secluded grove known as Bad Man's Hallows, local villagers have gathered for a festival to placate the Bad Man, the ancient Breton god of crop failure. According to tradition, appeasing the Bad Man will ensure good fortune and a bountiful harvest.
What the vanished Dwarven people called this small subterranean site is now lost to history. Modern scholars of the Dwemer call it the "Inner Sea Armature."
Ancient Chimer shrines to the Daedric Prince Mephala were referred to in common parlance as "Mephala's Nests." Some of them are remarkably well preserved. Others now host dangerous creatures that have developed a special taste for intrusive scholars.
"Softloam Cavern": doesn't sound so bad. In fact, it sounds kind of … nice. How bad can it be?
The abandoned mine on the coast at Hightide Hollow has been used on and off for centuries as a smugglers' den. Now someone seems to have chased the smugglers out. Who are the new residents?
In Morrowind there are many shrines to the "Good Daedra": Azura, Boethiah, and Mephala. Far more rare are shrines to the "Bad Daedra," the Four Corners of the House of Troubles: Mehrunes Dagon, Molag Bal, Malacath … and Sheogorath.
All the indicators point to this place being an active flint mine, except one thing: where are all the miners?
The burial vaults called the Forgotten Crypts were not so much forgotten as forsaken, given up after a rogue necromancer animated a score of hallowed dead within. Ordinators from Mournhold brought the necromancer to justice, but the stigma of undeath persisted.
Lost City of the Na-Totambu - When the Crown Redguards arrived in Hammerfell, they were determined to reproduce the culture of Yokuda as nearly as possible. They founded a city in the Alik'r called Na-Totambu, after the lost Yokudan capital. But this new city was buried in a great sandstorm, and abandoned.
This long abandoned, crumbling tower appears to be an old outwork of the Daggerfall defenses.
The ruins of Silumm are the westernmost known Ayleid settlement in Tamriel. Abandoned early in the First Era, Silumm was occupied again during the brief height of the Direnni Hegemony, before being left once more to the erosion of time.
These extensive mines, once famous as a source of crystals and gems, were abandoned after a ceiling collapse in 1E 2906 rendered most of the tunnels inaccessible.
The halls of lost Enduum are given a wide berth by the local Bretons, who claim that its corridors and chambers are haunted by ghosts of the ancient Ayleids who built them back in the Dawn Era.
The Ebon Crypt was once used by the noble Gautiers of Camlorn as their family mausoleum, until Thrandyke the Repugnant adopted it as a laboratory for his vile necromantic experiments.
As the name implies, Cryptwatch Fort was once an underground mausoleum. It was later fortified by the addition of a tower during one of High Rock's many internal conflicts.
An abandoned outwork of Firebrand Keep, this tower once guarded the crossroads between Wayrest and Alcaire.
Rumor has it this old, shuttered ebony mine has recently been reopened by agents of the Mages Guild.
Once the favored burial site of the elite of Stormhaven, the Menevia Catacombs were abandoned, along with Menevia Abbey, after the Ghost Harrowing of 2E 307. The vaults were renamed the Pariah Catacombs when the Spirit Wardens re-opened the nearby chapel as Pariah Abbey.
Who excavated Farangel's Delve, and why, is unknown. What is known is that it was used as a smugglers' den for untold generations, until recently cleaned out and closed by the Lion Guard. However, rumor says it's been reopened….
In many parts of Tamriel, black bears are smaller than their brown or white cousins. Not so the black bears of High Rock, which are among the largest seen anywhere.
It's unknown what these vaults were called by the Ayleids who built them. They acquired their current name when they were occupied during the Second Empire by the eccentric wizard Norvulk Tome-Hoarder.
This mine is responsible for much of Crestshade's prosperity, but work was suspended when trouble came to the nearby village.
There are at least three kinds of undead in Tamriel: the reanimated, which includes skeletons and zombies; the returned, which includes ghosts and wraiths; and the accursed, which includes vampires and their ilk.
Tribulation Crypt has long been the preferred cemetery of the Rivenspire nobility. Or it was, until the dead began rising from their graves.
"Do not dally, do not linger, in the tomb they call Orc's Finger." — Northpoint Children's Chant
The crumbling walls, arches, and tunnels in Shrouded Pass are all that is left of Erokii, once the greatest Ayleid city in northwest Tamriel. Its destruction occurred so far in the past that no one today knows the date of its downfall.
The Montclairs were made barons in 1E 1029 when the Empress Hestra brought High Rock into the First Empire. Northpoint's fortunes have waxed and waned with the ebb and flow of the northwest coastal trade ever since.
When the Rourken Dwemer migrated west to Hammerfell, they found a land rich in untapped mineral wealth. They roamed far from their city of Volenfell in pursuit of it, bulding deep mines and busy workshops. Many of these sites remain virtually untouched.
"Divad's Chagrin" is an epic poem of the Redguards describing the great hero's remorse at forsaking the life of a musician to fight tyranny and injustice. No one seems to know what the story of Divad has to do with this shallow mine in the desert.
Though some Dwarven automatons were clearly designed for defense of the facilities in which they're found, the function of other constructs is less clear. Some appear to be tasked with maintaining other machines, lubricating joints and replacing worn-out parts.
The shipwrights at nearby Tava's Blessing depend upon the mine at Coldrock for grit-rock, used in sanding wooden planks, and holystone, a light pumice used for cleaning the decks.
"Sandblown? Ah, now I recall it—the played-out copper mine south of Kozanset. That pit hasn't been worked since the reign of King Ramzi."
The scholar Guylaine Marilie asserts that "Yldzuun" can be accurately translated as "Mechanized Paradise." However, Thelwe Ghelein says the name is best rendered as "Steam Closet."
This mine once eked out iron ore to its diligent Breton miners, but it has long since been given up to Orcish raiders from Wrothgar.
The Knahaten Flu swept through the Mournoth Dungeons, killing everyone, prisoners, guards, and warden alike. The prison was decommissioned and left to decay. Now the locals call it by a different name.
In the early First Era, during the days when the Direnni Hegemony ruled High Rock, a series of watch towers was built along the border with the Reach and Skyrim. Today most of them are nothing more than crumbling ruins.
After High Rock joined the First Empire in 1E 1029, the King of Evermore had a vast cemetery built outside the city to house himself and his descendants, naming it after Saint Pelin of Bangkorai Pass. Some of the empty mausoleums ended up put to other uses than burial.
The location of the Dwarven ruin called Klathzgar had been lost since the middle of the First Era, when its entrance was hidden by drifting sand. Now the same desert wind that covered it has uncovered it, and its entrance is revealed.
It is estimated that Nilata, one of the most extensive Ayleid ruin complexes in Hammerfell, was occupied by the Wild Elves for at least a thousand years. Its welkynd stones will probably continue to glow for at least another thousand.
Windhelm, like most Nord cities, has a Hall of the Dead where bodies are interred, overseen by a Priest of Orkey who ensures that corpses are properly consecrated and cared for.
Deep in the Jerall Mountains, the remote canyon known as Steelhead Cleft sports some new residents—who've given it a new name.
The superstitious Nords revere the ancient Dragon Temples whose arches jut from the peaks like stony ribs. They associate these places with events of the distant past. Skuldafn is one of the greatest of these temples, and thus one of the most sacred.
The dreadful Oblivion plane of Coldharbour is a place of death, despair, and infinite cruelty. It is ruled by Molag Bal, the Lord of Brutality and Domination, a Daedric Prince dedicated to enslaving all the mortals of Nirn.
The Hall of Trials is Windhelm's arena, where champions from all over Tamriel come to compete to win victory in Nord games. Being Nords, their games chiefly involve lethal weapons and near-death experiences while the audience cheers and drinks mead.
An Orc clan in the pay of the Covenant has converted an old Orc stronghold near Cradlecrush into an arena for blood sports. The amphitheater reeks of blood, Orc sweat, and bog-iron ale.
The long-lost Snow Elves that once inhabited Skyrim were reputedly immune to cold and could live comfortably in ice caverns. They are said to have bred a species of snow-cedar so hardy it can live even within the heart of a glacier.
The Icehammers were a famous clan of warriors who fought long and well during the reign of Hoag Merkiller—so well that King Hoag made the head of the clan one of his thanes. But the clan fell on evil times thereafter, and the Icehammer name died out in the last quarter of the First Era.
Sord Pot-Helm was a prospector who is said to have singlehandedly dug out the cave that bears his name, working until he died at the age of 103, still convinced that just a bit more digging would reveal a fabulous ebony lode.
Morachellis Hag-Husband speculated that a troll's third eye was used to view, not the mundane world, but the overworld of spirits coterminous with our own. However, Morachellis also believed that horkers grew into mammoths, and that fire could be classed as a beverage.
Grunilda Stormcrag was one of the original Five Hundred Companions who landed on the shores of Skyrim with Ysgramor. After the Snow Elves were defeated, she established her clan holdings on the northern slopes of the Icewind Peaks.
This worn-out old copper and turquoise mine has an evil reputation among the locals of southern Eastmarch, though no one will explain exactly why they feel they must avoid it. Perhaps the true reason has been lost, leaving only a general dread.
In the mortal realms, libraries are known as places of learning and scholarship, where those who seek truth may be able to find it. A library in Coldharbour is a place of indoctrination, where one will find only the truth according to Molag Bal.
Coldharbour is a series of prisons within prisons. The Lightless Oubliette was specifically built to hold entities who can manipulate light to magical ends. The wardens of the Oubliette are careful to use only lights of the colder spectra, as these are less susceptible to refocusing.
The rules that govern the behavior of Molag Bal's servants are known as the Seven-Hundred-and-One Edicts; special cases are covered in the Mandatory Codicils. Violation of even the least of the Edicts can result in a sentence to the Scathe-Rings.
Only the Dremora Overkyn who supervise the Black Forge know the secrets of smithing the ebony-alloy cold-iron of which the great chains and Dark Anchors are made. The work here is difficult and dangerous, and most Soul Shriven thralls last only a few shifts.
Many Tamrielic structures in Coldharbour appear to have been stolen directly from Nirn. But the Daedra, though not creative, are great imitators, so some locations may merely be uncannily exact replicas.
The leader of the Citadel commands his Reavers from within this Dremora stronghold. The unique shape and oppressive design of the place can be disturbing to mortals, but it suits Valkynaz Seris just fine.
According to Camilonwe of Alinor, the Sapiarch of Transliminal Arts in the Crystal Tower, an artifact that could physically bind disparate planes together would have to be fabricated so as to exist simultaneously in multiple locations.
Molag Bal is a master of all forms of domination over mortals, including the arts of illusion. As a matter of course the Lord of Brutality prefers lies to the truth—except when the truth is more cruel.
There are whispers among the Soul Shriven that the Planar Vortex and the Endless Stair were built for Molag Bal by the Mad Architect himself.
"But above all others they did venerate the Lady of Light, building for Merid-Nunda a chapel of colored rays and beams, which was for glory like a piece of Aetherius brought down to the mortal world."
Molag Grunda is acknowledged in Coldharbour as Molag Bal's daughter—though it's not clear what that relationship means to a Daedric Prince. The Soul Shriven whisper that those Dremora posted to Molag Grunda's court are never happy about the assignment.
There were already Wood Orcs living in Valenwood when the Elves first arrived from Old Aldmeris. Though there has often been conflict between Orc and Bosmer, they usually share the forest in a tentative truce.
Is Mauloch the Aedra different from Malacath the Daedra, or are they a single entity, cast out by both groups of Divines? No one can agree as to the truth of the matter—not even the Orcs.
An old story about the Silvenar states that the office represents all Wood Elves by being held simultaneously by from three to eight Bosmer from all walks of life. Such an arrangement would, of course, be completely impractical in real life.
The High Elves live long lives and have a talent for magic. Sometimes an Altmer's pursuit of magical power leads to tampering with forbidden knowledge and illicit dealings with evil Daedra. It was to confine such trespassers that the Banished Cells were created.
The second largest of the Summerset Isles, Auridon has always served the High Elves as a buffer between their serene archipelago and the turmoil of Tamriel. The Altmer of Auridon have been hardened by generations of repelling invaders, pirates, and plagues.
Once known simply as Northern Valenwood, this region that borders Cyrodiil and Elsweyr has seen so much bloody warfare since the fall of the Second Empire that it's now known as Reaper's March, even to its battle-scarred inhabitants.
This region is the southern heart of the Wood Elves' great forest, and home to more of the gigantic graht-oaks than any other part of Valenwood. Its capital, now also the capital of the entire Aldmeri Dominion, is Elden Root.
"The Dwemer sought to quantify mystical absolutes so as to enable them to manipulate the substance of reality without employing the intercession of divinities." — Fal Droon
This tower, nestled in the heart of the Glister Vale, was constructed as the summer home for Kinlady Tuinden's immediate family. Since the death of King Hidellith of Alinor it has fallen into disuse and disrepair. Still, strange noises can sometimes be heard echoing off the vale walls.
Despite its name, Phaer Catacombs is not the village cemetery, as the High Elves cremate their dead. These caves are a worked-out porphyry mine, now converted to a burial site for those foreign workers the Altmer bring in to do their menial labor.
The official histories of the First Empire state that when Empress Alessia's forces captured White-Gold Tower, all the Ayleids' evil relics of arcane power were taken and destroyed. But Duke Quarl of Twil insisted until his dying day that an Elf King escaped with the chief artifacts.
The Errinorne Academy was destroyed when the Sload sacked Skywatch in 1E 1301 and never rebuilt, as its island location was thereafter deemed indefensible. But now the ruined halls of the academy's great library have been reoccupied.
Castle Rilis is one of the oldest Elven structures in all the Summerset Isles. The vaults beneath the castle are even older still—and are said to preserve some things that would have been better left forgotten.
On the one hand, the High Elves are second to none in their appreciation of the wonders of nature. On the other hand, their impulse to improve things to make them more artistically perfect is nigh irresistable [sic]. This urge even applies to natural caverns.
There are obvious similarities between Altmer architecture and that of their cousins the Ayleids, but there are clear differences as well. High Elven architecture is cleaner and more direct, with less baroque ornamentation than that of the Wild Elves.
Mehrunes Dagon's plane of Oblivion, known as the Deadlands, is an inferno of lava, razor-sharp obsidian, and deadly Daedra. Its only visitors are beings of steadfast courage and desperate purpose.
Now ruined, the subterranean halls of Ondil were built in the early First Era to house Kinlady Fiorallelle's extensive collection of ceramic figurines. It was abandoned before completion when its alignment with the constellation of the Atronach was found to be seven percent off true.
No one believed the old ouster Del when he staggered into Vulkhel Guard and claimed he'd found a huge deposit of lapis lazuli in the hills, but it turned out to be true, and now Del's Claim is one of the most profitable mines on Auridon.
Kinlady Entila of Clan Auralus had a vivid dream that beneath the coastal cliffs near Skywatch was a fabulous fist-sized gem, the Egg of the World. Based on the directions in her vision, she hired a score of miners to dig until they found it. The funds of Clan Auralus ran out first.
Legend has it that the excavation of Wansalen was halted, and the halls abandoned, when the Elven miners roused and angered an ancient rock-spirit called a Gheatus. But the wise Sapiarchs of the Crystal Tower dismiss this story as a fable with no truth to it.
Before the followers of the Prophet Veloth left Summerset for Morrowind, they built several secret shrines for illicit worship of the Daedric Princes. It is believed that after the Chimer left Summerset, all of these heretical shrines were found and destroyed.
The high vaulted halls of Bewan were originally built in the Merethic Era as a shrine to Trinimac. Bewan was abandoned early in the First Era when the priesthood moved to the grand Trinimac Chantry outside Skywatch.
Sometimes called Redbelly Mine for reasons that can't be repeated in mixed company, the ebony mine at Shor's Stone is the foundation of the local economy, and generations of villagers have sent their young men and women down into the works, despite the dangers.
This old iron mine up in the mountains has been worked by a reclusive family of Nord miners for generations. No one's seen any of the miners lately, but sometimes they don't come down for supplies for months on end.
The vaults beneath Fallowstone Hall have long served as a museum and mortuary for the Companions. Immaculate and gleaming with trophies when new, the vaults have recently suffered somewhat from neglect.
The origins of this cave's name are obscure, but whoever Lady Llarel was it seems unlikely she'd find shelter here now, as the grotto seems to be occupied by a hive of wild kwama.
The brazen doors of this Dwarven site slide open smoothly and without hesitation, mute testimony to the uncanny skill of the Dwemeri engineers who built them ages ago. Perhaps the rest of the site will be in good repair as well.
Everyone knows the Triple Circle Mine produces the highest quality iron ore in Deshaan. Strange to find such an active mine looking so deserted.
Some have speculated that this site comes by its name because this is where the famous Nord author Taleon Mythmaker chose to retire after his bitter literary feud with Helgreir Lute-Voice. Phrastus of Elinhir, however, regards this theory as "fanciful twaddle."
Once this place was a shrine to Boethiah known as the Gauntlet Tabernacle, a place where Chimer sailors would stop to pay their respects before sailing overseas. Now it is rumored to be dedicated to other Daedra: the Four Corners of the House of Troubles.
The Siltreen Sanitary Mortuary acquired its ominous new name after it was stricken by an outbreak of undeath. No one is certain why the dead within have chosen to rise and walk among the living.
Based on what little is known about the Dwarven ruin of Avanchnzel, some scholars of Dwemer architecture believe it must be the outer chambers of a much larger site, access to which is now blocked. The automatons defending the place make it too dangerous to inquire further.
This deep, many-chambered natural cavern has been used by refugees as a sanctuary many times over the centuries. Some of the local Nords say it's quite safe, but others refuse to enter for fear of being trapped by a cave-in.
To the Altmer, Tanzelwil is one of the most sacred sites on Auridon, combining the functions of temple to the Elven ancestors and mausoleum of the ancient kinlords. The High Elves cremate their dead and then bury the ashes in wall shrines.
Aba-Loria - In Old Elvish, aba-loria means "forbidden darkness." According to scholars of the long-lost Heartland Elves, it was also the name of the mortuary crypts of the ancient Ayleid city of Abagarlas.
Most Nords find dealings with the Daedra to be abhorrent, so when Molag Bal has an opportunity to collect the soul of a notable Nord, it is a chance to be savored. Such was the case with Haman Forgefire.
Soul Shriven who collaborate with their guards and inform on their fellows may be rewarded with a shift of lighter labor—or even a visit to the Grotto of Depravity.
When Soul Shriven become too worn and decrepit for further labor as thralls, they are often set loose to run through the wilds of Coldharbour as prey for hunting Dremora. The victors in this sport bring the bones of their victims to the Cave of Trophies.
None of the denizens of Coldharbour can actually "die"—all of them, Daedra and Soul Shriven, merely discorporate until they can form new bodies. Why, then, are there so many tombs and graveyards? Because Coldharbour is Molag Bal's plane, and he likes them.
Molag Bal is fascinated by the metamagical technology of Soul Gems, and has several mystical research efforts under way to develop new and more efficient methods of stealing and imprisoning the souls of mortals.
Ancient seat of the rulers of Camlorn, Duke Sebastien's proud keep has been reduced to rubble by the forces of the despicable Faolchu.
Seat of the Deleyn Dynasty, current rulers of the city-state of Daggerfall, whose castle has long watched over the town from its unassailable position high atop the seaside cliffs.
Angof the Gravesinger has desecrated the most hallowed vaults of Cath Bedraud, usurping the crypts of the ancient Breton kings for his own vile purposes.
Nothing is known for certain about Aldcroft Cave — the local Bretons refuse to go near it due to its unwholesome reputation.
The caves beneath the moors once served as the lair of the evil Alessian general, Faolchu the Changeling.
The inner sanctum of the keep built by the long-dead King Aphren.
The strange vaulted halls of Taarengrav Barrow are ancient indeed—possibly as old as Saarthal or Labyrinthian. Certainly to modern eyes, this barrow was constructed on no logical plan. Perhaps its arrangement has a mystic significance.
Trickster god Rajhin the Footpad, known as the Purring Liar, is much beloved of Khajiiti storytellers. He sends his Seven Shadows into the world to accomplish amazing feats of larceny and stealth.
"As for the Osseous Orrery: can anyone really claim to comprehend the full intentions of Anumaril in his metamorphosis to instrumentality? Do we even know how many axes of circumpenetration its arms rotate through?" — Morian Zenas, "Commentaries on Beredalmo"
Toward the end of the First Era, when Valenwood was ruled by the Second Empire, Southpoint was the most important Imperial colony-town in what was then called the Kingdom of Grahtwood. The cathedral there was built by Governor Zantonius, a Colovian from Kvatch.
"The most famous burglar in Elsweyr's history, Rajhin is said to have stolen a tattoo from the neck of Empress Kintyra as she slept." — Brother Mikhael Karkuxor, "Varieties of Faith"
"Throat of Darkness." That's how the scholars at Arcane University translate "Laeloria." The Wood Orcs at Barkbite Stronghold just refer to it as "the Haunted Pit."
The corsairs of the Southern Sea may not have as fierce a reputation as the pirates of the Abecean, but that's probably because they keep a lower profile, as they must constantly dodge the warships of the Altmer and Maormer. The corsairs may be of any race, but most are Khajiit.
The Altmeri wizard Telacar excavated and occupied this ancient Ayleid ruin, converting it to his own uses. The site's original Ayleid name has been long forgotten.
The port city of Haven, on the border with Elsweyr, has changed hands many times. During the late First Era it was governed by the Reman Empire. More recently it has become a sort of High Elf colony. The Altmer replaced the Imperial buildings with their own—but they kept the Imperial sewer system.
The Ayleids who fled to Valenwood after the Slave Rebellion were mostly those who worshiped the Daedric Princes, which was outlawed under Empress Alessia. The Slave Queen melded the Aedra worshiped by her human and remaining Elven subjects to create the Eight Divines.
Expatriates often try to bring beloved aspects of their culture with them when they emigrate. So it was with Llevyn Buratil of Narsis in Morrowind, who tried to establish a kwama mine in Grahtwood. The experiment was less than a resounding success.
With the flurry of construction going on in nearby Elden Root, the Foriniel Brothers have reopened Mobar Mine to supply the builders with clay for making bricks. Strangely, no one has heard from the Foriniels in over a week.
Ancestral home of the Direfrost clan, this frozen castle has long been sealed to the outside world, its owners neither seen nor heard from in generations. Mountain storms rage above the castle walls, conjured up by some unknown malignant power.
When the Senalana Ayleids fled the Slave Rebellion that made humans the masters of Cyrodiil, they didn't go far, just a league or so into Valenwood. They assumed the vengeance of their former slaves wouldn't follow them across the border. They were wrong.
Constructed by the Colovians during one of their periods of rule over Arenthia, this grand temple to the Eight is a testament to their devotion. There are said to be subterranean vaults beneath the nave.
The city of Falinesti occupies the boughs and bole of a great walking Elden Tree—possibly the original Elden Tree from which all others are derived. These towering graht-oaks are so huge as to beggar belief, trees on a mythic scale.
Still magnificent even in decay, Do'Krin Temple is the crowning architectural achievement of the reign of Darloc Brae, the Golden Beast of Anequina. It was built with the loot of the Anequine Conquests, when Darloc Brae ruled from Rimmen to Arenthia.
Though not the largest temple in northern Elsweyr, Rawl'kha is probably the most culturally significant, for it is here that the Mane revealed the Riddle'Thar Epiphany in 2E 311, the key event in modern Khajiiti theology.
There are trickster spirits in many of Tamriel's cultures. The Khajiit and Wood Elves have raised one to the level of a major Divine. To them, Baan Dar represents genius, sly innovation, and agile wits. He is the nimble escape when trapped in a tight spot.
Though sacred to worshippers of Jone and Jode, the temple at Moonmont has fallen on hard times. The chaos in Reaper's March has cut off the flow of pilgrims to its shrines, and the Two-Moons clergy has had to abandon the site until peace returns.
Built by the Second Empire to house a garrison of Border Scouts, Sphinxmoth was placed between feuding tribes of Bosmer and Khajiiti in an attempt to stop their cross-border raiding. When the Empire fell, the fort's garrison was replaced by the very raiders it was built to control.
The Cat-Folk are inveterate gamblers, and like nothing better than a wager on a good fight. When the fort at Thizzrini stopped serving as a fort, within weeks it was turned into a fighting arena thronged with eager bettors.
The Demi-Plane of Jode - Some theological scholars hold that the two moons orbiting Nirn are representations of the "Cloven Duality" of the Aedric trickster-god Lorkhan, who connived at the creation of the world and was punished for it.
Others (it is always Others) contend that the Moons are literally the rotting corpses of Lorkhan himself, spinning in eternal dual ellipses above but ever beyond that creation for which he gave his Heart. But the War of Manifest Metaphors has rendered this (and all narratives) absurd.
The cemeteries and graveyards of Reaper's March overflow with the dead slain in war after war, but at least their survivors could always count on them resting quietly. However, that was before Molag Bal began his Planemeld.
There is a ready market in Senchal and Torval for Khajiiti relics from the glorious period of the Anequine Conquests. Objects that date from the reign of Darloc Brae the Golden Beast are particularly prized.
For generations, tomb robbers have been trying to find their way into the halls beneath the Ayleid ruin known locally as Fardir's Folly. Word has reached Dune that they may finally have succeeded.
Adoption of the Riddle'Thar Epiphany was not without controversy: when the priests of the Shrine of the Consummate S'rendarr in the Jodewood refused to accept the new edicts, they were exiled and the temple deconsecrated. Today it is a bandit lair.
According to the "Speluncus Tamrielicum," the reason Nirn is seemingly riddled with natural caverns is that, like a living body, the world is veined with a system of nodes and capillaries that once pulsed with the divine essence of the Aedra who created it.
The shrine of Jode's Light just outside Pa'alat was founded by Moon-Bishop Thizzrini in the mid-First Era as a place of safe contemplation for all moon-monks, no matter when they were born on the ja'Kha'jay. It was abandoned during the mass mortality of the Thrassian Plague.
Thanks to the Green Pact, the more industrious Wood Orcs of Valenwood have prospered by mining coal and kindlepitch and selling it to the Bosmer, who won't cut down trees for wood to burn, but still need to fire their forges. Dead Man's Drop is one such mine.
The Green Pact, the Spinners say, contains its own punishment for those who turn their back on it. Such apostates become the Accursed of Y'ffre, doomed to haunt lost corners of the Green until they find a way to redeem themselves.
The hoarvor, a colossal, blood-sucking tick, is one of the most repulsive creatures in all of Tamriel. To anyone who knows the Bosmer, it will come as no surprise that many have a perverse admiration for the hoarvor, adopting the gross insect as a sort of mascot.
No one is sure nowadays which of the Daedric Princes were worshiped by the Ayleid clan who built the haunted corridors of Shael, but it was certainly one of the more malefic of the Lords of Oblivion.
The Wood Elves don't do much mining in earth or loose rock, as such mines require a lot of lumber to shore up their sides and ceilings, and the Bosmer won't cut live trees for lumber. Other races, however, have no such scruples.
The name of the long-dead Ayleid clan that built these halls has been forgotten. Their latter-day name is Black Vine, for the writhing, dark vines that spill from the crumbling arches and doorways.
The spiders of Tamriel are fearsome carnivores that prey on everything they can catch, even each other. They have adapted to every environment, both above and below ground, and there seems to be no limit as to how large they can grow.
The strangler is a carnivorous plant that lurks in the shadows of the forest floor. Its tentacles excrete a sticky, sweet substance that attracts prey. The strangler reacts to warmth and movement by lashing out with its tentacles and drawing what it captures into its hungry maw.
Regarded by scholars of the arcane as the apex achievement of the Wild Elves' magical art, the so-called Ayleid Wells are believed to use Aetherial crystal to aggregate magicka from starlight—even in subterranean locations.
The regulars at the Horker's Tusk in Ivarstead all agree that trouble has taken up residence in Snapleg Cave, but the nature of that trouble is a matter of dispute. Is it bandits? Smugglers? Hagravens? Cultists? The debate rages on.
Fort Greenwall was built to guard the road between Riften and Windhelm, but it was sacked by the Akaviri army during the recent invasion, and has yet to be refurbished and regarrisoned by the Ebonheart Pact.
Legends say the barrow known as Shroud Hearth is deep and vast, but the secret of access to the lower corridors has been forgotten. Occasionally treasure hunters venture into the antechambers in search of the lost lower levels, but fewer come out than go in.
Sacked over a century ago by raiding Orcs from Yashnag's Kingdom, the fort known as Faldar's Tooth has been left to decay ever since by the Jarls of Riften, who have had no need, or no funds, to rebuild it.
Bandits from Broken Helm Hollow have long preyed on the road from Riften to Fort Virak in Morrowind. The Riften Guard clears the place out every few seasons, but the bandits always seem to return.
Goblins are native to the Summerset Isles, and were here when the Elves first arrived from Old Aldmeris. The Altmer enslaved the native Goblins to perform their manual labor, but never quite eradicated the free tribes in the wild.
The Colovians of the Imperial West are generally known as a devout people, dedicated to the Eight Divines and the old Imperial virtues. But every generation throws up a few who turn to dark and sinister pursuits; these are known to their compatriots as the Woeful Colovians.
The Ayleid doorway on this natural cave is something of a puzzle for scholars of the Wild Elves. Did they use it as a storage cavern, or were their plans for finishing it in the usual manner simply interrupted?
Many of the bandit gangs in Cyrodiil formed relatively recently, their members largely made up of deserters from the Imperial Legions—or from the armies of the invading alliances.
Goblin expert Nellic Sterone of Stormhaven believes that most Goblin tribes have more than a dozen ways of preparing rat meat comestibles.
The name of this cave has nothing to do with reflected sound—it refers to the undead who have long haunted its chilly depths, shambling through the caverns in an unholy echo of the actions of the living.
These winding tunnels were once home to a thriving fungus-farming operation. But since war has come to Cyrodiil, they've been put to darker uses.
Though occasionally mined as a source of chert and flint by vassals of House Tharn, this cavern hasn't been used for that purpose for some time. The locals say it's too dangerous.
In the language of the Ayleids, the name of this ruin translates as "Soapstone Delve," but the locals around Chorrol know it as the Elf Haunts, and keep away from it.
The Goblins of the Valus Mountains are said to go back and forth between Cyrodiil and Morrowind using tunnels and secret passes. Some tribes have imported subterranean agricultural practices from their cousins to the east.
On the docks in Bravil they say Newt Cave would be an excellent base for a smuggling operation. If anyone on the Bravil docks knew any smugglers, which they deny.
"You've got no more chance than a child at night in Nisin Cave." — Old Saying in Vlastarus
Some say the Wild Elves used these caves as a mausoleum. Certainly something about this place brings to mind things that should be dead, but refuse to stay that way….
The domains north of Cheydinhal have belonged to House Tharn since the late First Era. By the end of the War of Righteousness, General Turpis "Volte-Face" Tharn was in possession of the broad holdings that the family today calls home.
Despite its name, no gems have ever been found in this ebony mine, which was dubbed "Red Ruby" in order to attract investors from nearby Bruma.
Phrastus of Elinhir's speculation that ogres' gray-blue skin camouflages their silhouetted forms against the sky has been convincingly debunked by Lady Cinnabar of Taneth.
Not far south of the Larsius River the rolling plains of the Wealds give way to the forests of Valenwood. Sometimes beasts from beneath those green canopies make their way north.
Though originally built by Colovians, the catacombs below Greenhill Church have burial chambers for each of the three local races. Khajiiti bury their dead much the same way the Imperials do; the Bosmer, of course, bury only their skeletons.
A site hallowed by its association with Saint Alessia, Sancre Tor was the religious center of the Alessian Order for much of the First Era. By longstanding tradition, Emperors of Cyrodiil are buried in the funerary vaults beneath the city.
Like the Fighters Guild, the Mages Guild takes a strictly neutral stand regarding the wars currently raging across Tamriel. This suits the three alliances, as each fears that if the guilds chose to take sides, it might be with their enemies.
The souls of Argonians are different from those of other races of Tamriel due to their deep, mystical connection to the Hist trees. Sorcerers who specialize in soul trapping have long sought some way to take advantage of this difference.
The word in Bruma is that these caves were once warm enough for fungus farming, but when the farmers tried to expand them, they tunneled into an ice cavern that chilled the entire place to a bitter cold.
"(And Pelinal) broke the doors open for the prisoners of the Vahtache with the Slave-Queen flying on Morihaus above them, and Men called her Al-Esh for the first time." — The Song of Pelinal, Volume 4
This extensive cave system is said to include tunnels that lead to subterranean fortifications, but since the tunnel collapse of 2E 512 no miner has been able re-enter that section.
One of the first landfalls settled by the Redguards when they sailed east from their lost homeland of Yokuda, the island of Stros M'Kai is now a haven for freebooters, sea-rovers, and other nautical entrepreneurs who roam the Abecean Sea.
Nine generations ago, the island of Betony was conquered by the Seamount Orcs, who renamed it Betnikh. A proud, self-reliant people, the Orcs fiercely protect their new home from incursion by outsiders.
This island off the south coast of Elsweyr is named after the Khajiiti goddess of weather and the sky, who is usually represented as a great hawk. She finds many worshipers among the cat-folk's sailors and farmers, especially those who grow moon-sugar cane.
The Ayleid Sanctuary on Betnikh was sealed by the Balfiera Elves during the Direnni Hegemony, and its tunnels were never explored or catalogued by the Bretons who came after. They might contain … anything.
Shalidor may not have been the first wizard to call himself Arch-Mage, but history records him as such. When Vanus Galerion founded the Mages Guild, he declared the high guildmaster's title would be Arch-Mage to honor the memory of Shalidor.
For the greater Daedra, scamps are useful minions. Their nimble hands can carry and manipulate objects, and they are just intelligent enough to be cunning opponents in combat.
For the greater Daedra, scamps are useful minions. Their nimble hands can carry and manipulate objects, and they are just intelligent enough to be cunning opponents in combat.
For the greater Daedra, scamps are useful minions. Their nimble hands can carry and manipulate objects, and they are just intelligent enough to be cunning opponents in combat.
The seat of the Dukes of Alcaire, who have reigned over the vales of eastern Stormhaven since the late First Era.
The magnificent royal domicile of the king of the city-state of Wayrest — and now, the seat of the High King of the Daggerfall Covenant.
Wood Elves build towns by persuading trees to grow into homes, but that is a long and slow process. As much as they like the woods, they're perfectly happy to exploit natural caverns as an easy source of lodgings.
This offshore island feels like it's from another, better world. It radiates an almost palpable aura of magicka. It's wonderful … and somehow very, very wrong.
The Wood Elves' practice of throwing all garbage out their windows to fall at the roots of their tree-houses is regarded by other folk as revolting and unsanitary. The Bosmer say they're fertilizing the roots of their beloved trees, but most others just think they're lazy.
When Valenwood was a part of the Second Empire, and Woodhearth was an Imperial Kingdom, the Wood Elves had their first encounter with Cyrodilic bureaucracy. The Imperials didn't think much of the Bosmeri city's sanitation, and constructed its first real sewer system.
The cursed disease of vampirism comes in many different forms, and it's said there are more than a hundred different vampire clans in Tamriel. There are at least four clans in Valenwood, including the Keerilth, who can escape vampire hunters by transforming into mist.
"Hermaeus Mora, hearken to the plea of this unworthy, for I come to barter for knowledge denied. That which I seek is named on this parchment, which I consume in your honor, O Demon of Knowledge. For my desire to know is beyond reckoning, and in recompense, whatever price is named shall be met."
The Maormer are native to the island kingdom of Pyandonea, an archipelago in the southern ocean. Their ruler, King Orgnum, is said to be immortal.
South of Hammerfell, west of Cyrodiil, north of Valenwood, and northeast of Summerset is that pocket of the Eltheric Ocean called the Abecean Sea. It bustles with trade, merchant ships—and pirates.
According to old stories, Nereids are female nature spirits mystically linked to bodies of pure and flowing fresh water. But there are few known facts to either support or belie these tales.
The blue fluid found everywhere in Coldharbour is called Azure Plasma, and is unformed "chaotic creatia," the stuff from which all Oblivion matter is formed. When a Daedra is "killed," its morphotype, or vestige, gradually forms a new body by accretion of Azure Plasma.
In the Ayleid language, Hectahame means "home of the exiles"—appropriate for a city built by Wild Elves who fled Cyrodiil in the wake of the Slave Rebellion of Saint Alessia. Scholars believe this was a refuge for those who ruled the White-Gold Tower itself.
After Princess Ayrenn mysteriously disappeared from Alinor in 2E 563, her younger brother, Prince Naemon, was named heir to the throne of the Summerset Isles. In preparation to rule he studied Royal Ceremoniarchy for nearly ten years. Then Ayrenn returned to Summerset.
The Nords of western Rift Hold have been extending the great barrow vaults beneath the Thane's Hall in Nimalten for thousands of years. This is partly due to the fact that certain families refuse to bury their dead in the same chamber as certain other families.
In addition to the major planes of Oblivion, there is an almost unlimited number of so-called "pocket planes," small self-contained realities where the ordinary rules of nature may or may not apply.
The ruins at Khaj Rawlith mark the westernmost extent of the Anequine Conquests, when the Cat-Folk soldiers of the Golden Beast ruled the land from the Larsius River to the Strid. The vast echoing halls still evoke a certain brutal majesty.
Ren-dro Caverns - The Eyes of the Queen is the Aldmeri Dominion's secret intelligence service. It's said that Ayrenn began assembling a network of informers on the continent of Tamriel long before she returned to Summerset to assume the throne.
Circle within circle, ring within ring, to the mystic heart of the magical craft of the mysterious Beldama Wyrd.
The Oblivion realm of Hircine is an endless forest where the Master of Beasts and his Huntsmen pursue great beasts, people, and even their own kind.
The Oblivion realm of Hircine is an endless forest where the Master of Beasts and his Huntsmen pursue great beasts, people, and even their own kind.
In their homeland of Yokuda, the precursors of the Redguards fought long and bitter conflicts with the Lefthanded Elves. When the Ra Gada came to Tamriel and found Elven colonies on the Hammerfell coasts, they set out to eradicate them.
Tu'whacca is the god who escorts the souls of departed Redguards to the afterlife of the Far Shores. Though a soul may have enemies who will try to keep it from reaching the Far Shores, Tu'Whacca is sly and clever, and always outwits them.
Given the Redguards' tremendous respect for their deceased ancestors, it's no surprise to find that their houses for the dead can be even larger and more elaborate than their homes for the living.
Though claimed at times by Valenwood, the Gold Coast, and Hammerfell, the island of Stirk is really a no-man's-land. If it belongs to anyone, it's the Pirates of the Abecean Sea, who use Stirk's Ayleid ruins as arenas for settling disputes through trial by combat.
Mannimarco was expelled from the Psijic Order when Vanus Galerion discovered he was conducting forbidden experiments with necromancy.
Deep in the Dragontail Mountains of Hammerfell is the almost-inaccessible Valley of Blades, where Redguards devoted to the mastery of the sword seek to revive ancient secrets.
Though abandoned thousands of years ago, many Ayleid ruins are still lit by the blue glowing varla and welkynd stones found in them. These stones are among the so-called "Aetherial Crystals," gems that can store, transform, and emit magicka.
One of the reasons the Wood Elves tolerate the presence of Orc clans in Valenwood is that the Wood Orcs are nearly as talented at forging metal as their northern cousins. Bosmer who follow the Green Pact still have a use for metal tools and weapons, and buy them from the Orcs.
When Valenwood was conquered by Emperor Reman II late in the First Era, the princes of the Camoran Dynasty were exiled and the province was reorganized into nine small, semi-autonomous kingdoms. This bolstered local pride, and made Valenwood easier to govern.
These ruins have a bad reputation in nearby Woodhearth—which is not surprising, considering their name in Ayleidoon means "final death."
According to the Spinners in Marbruk, these cliffs were once inhabited by a flock of the rare, and possibly extinct, cockatiel harpies. They were said to kidnap young male hunters as mates, thus the saying about the lovestruck, "He's carried off to Harridan's."
Some caverns are prized, not for the ore that can be mined from them, but for the exotic fungus that grows within them. Barrow Trench is the latter sort.
Molag Bal's macabre palace serves also as a fortress and as a temple to himself. In all of Coldharbour, no place is more feared.
Temple of Auri-El - Auri-El is god-ancestor to all the High Elves, who claim direct descent from the divine Aedra. Auri-El is the god of time and creation, and is worshiped by most of Tamriel's humans as Akatosh.
At the center of Cyrodiil, the three Alliances compete against daedric overlords and each other for control over the Imperial City and access to the White Gold Tower.
The location of the entrance to the Dwarven city of Nchu Duabthar has long been known, but so far its gates have defied all attempts, physical or magical, to open them.
Tamriel is gone. You are going someplace else, someplace far from the world you know. Someplace wrong.
During the Thrassian Plague of 1E 2260, to avoid infection the nobles and merchant class of Shornhelm quarantined themselves in these caves for over five months. They finally emerged to find Rivenspire virtually depopulated.
"Morachellis speculated that the Ayleids who built the great spire above Erokii were attempting to create a metaphysical structure that would be a focus of Aurbic power, much as the Adamantine Tower is said to be. I have no idea what that means." —Phrastus of Elinhir
Northpoint was founded in the 9th century of the First Era by Captain Yric Flowdys, a Breton trader. He ran ships during the summer months around the northwest coast of Tamriel from Daggerfall to Solitude, and needed a safe and reliable anchorage at midpoint.
"A sigil stone is a specimen of pre-Mythic quasi-crystalline morpholith that has been transformed into an extra-dimensional artifact through the arcane inscription of a Daedric sigil." —Camilonwe of Alinor, "Liminal Bridges"
These underground halls were built early in the First Era by King Berthulic, ruler of one of the first free Breton kingdoms after the decline of the Direnni Hegemony. The halls were said to be haunted by the prisoners slain here in the Purge of the Wyrd-Hags in the Year of Sun's-Death.
Baron Wylon of Montclair bases his claim to the throne of Shornhelm on his descent from King Hurlburt, who ruled Rivenspire from from 2E 522 until his death in 546. Montclair's claim is disputed by the leaders of House Dorell and House Tamrith.
Bankgorai Pass is a natural choke point, the only way for an army from Hammerfell to enter High Rock without marching far to the west or north. There have been fortifications here since the early days of the Direnni Hegemony.
On the Far Shores, according to Yokudan lore, there is no hunger, thirst, or fatigue. But there are enough glorious challenges to keep a warrior-spirit engaged forever.
"And the people of Abagarlas reared up a vast shrine to Molag Bal, but they were but rude soldiers rather than artisans, and the shrine was misshapen, ill-colored, and burdensome to look upon." — The Whithering of Delodiil
The ancient crypt of Lamae Bal cannot be accessed by any means available to mortals. Only vampires and those blessed by them may enter…
Meridia's many-faceted realm is known as the Colored Rooms. She is said to have formed it out of the chaos of Oblivion by an act of sheer divine will.
The Elden Trees of Valenwood, a titanic species of graht-oak, are among the oldest living things on Tamriel. They are revered as focal points of the essence of the Green.
Mournhold was badly damaged at the end of the First Era when it was attacked by Mehrunes Dagon. The Daedric Prince was defeated by Almalexia and Sotha Sil, and the city has been entirely rebuilt. The Tribunal Temple looms over Mournhold from an eminence to the north.
"It is difficult for historians to declare a certain date for the foundation of Wayrest. A settlement of some variety had been in existence where the Bjoulsae River feeds the Iliac Bay possibly since the 800th year of the First Era." — Sathryr Longleat, "Wayrest, Jewel of the Bay"
Though crossed by caravans and Covenant troops going to and from Cyrodiil, this wild region of eastern Hammerfell is a virtual no-man's-land. It's anchored on the east and west by the towns of Elinhir and Dragonstar.
Roughly translated, the ancient Elven word "molavar" means "fire mouth," though it's unknown whether that was this ruin's original name in Ayleidoon or a description of the doom that overtook it.
Not all the Rourken Dwemer who came to the Dragontail Mountains ventured as far west as Volenfell. The lofty halls of Rkundzelft seem to indicate that the Dwarves built it for some great purpose—but what?
Snakes and serpents of all sizes slither through the caves and passages of Serpent's Nest, including (if the rumors are to be believed) a trio of deadly lamias and a contingent of Scaled Court cultists.
The ruins known as Ilthag's Undertower serve as a training ground for the Iron Orcs' growing army of trolls, under the tutelage of Ilthag Ironblood.
Great statues of Yokudan warriors stand like sentries before the entrance to the ancient crypts of Kardala. What age-old secrets do they guard?
A valley surrounded by dozens of caves built into the valley walls, the Loth'Na Caverns contain numerous sites important to the ancient Nedes.
There have been reports of dreugh infesting the Dwarven ruins of Rkhardahrk. Impossible: how could a colony of dreugh survive so far from the sea?
Some caravans that enter Craglorn never leave it again. Others do make their way to the far borders—but "under new management." The new proprietors are often members of the Greycloak gang, for such is their illicit business.
In Belkarth they say that when the Chiselshriek works were played out, the mine was taken over by bandits and raiders. But others whisper that the dig was abandoned because something far worse than bandits took up residence in its depths.
It's unclear whether the original name of this site was lost, forgotten, or deliberately expunged from the historical record. If they know, the sands aren't telling.
Mtharnaz is one of the youngest known Dwarven ruins. Indeed, it was still under construction when the Dwemer disappeared.
Undead overrun the Howling Sepulchers, a windswept burial grounds once sacred to the ancient Nedes.
It's said the Ayleids built a citadel at Balamath because the site is a natural juncture point where it is easy to pass between worlds. This story may have attracted the order of renegade conjurers who currently occupy it.
Scorpions and snakes infest this ancient Nedic ruin, making it a perfect location for the Scaled Court's forces to occupy.
The Iron Orcs have turned these ruins into the primary stronghold for their chieftain, Braadoth, the Ophidian Exarch of Undulating Destruction.
The scholar Phrastus of Elinhir claims that "Zalgaz" is Old Nedic for "lizard lady." But his rival, Cinnabar of Taneth, dismisses this as "A reeking load of guarwash."
Tombs of the Na-Totambu - "Know, O my prince, that in that forgotten time there arose a ruler of great wickedness, who unjustly took unto himself the title of Emperor. Cruel was he, utterly without ruth, and his name was Tarish-Zi." —The Unveiled Azadiyeh
"The Offices of the Hunt, which the Huntsmen, Master, and Hounds are solemnly sworn to honor … states that the Hare must have a genuine chance to escape the Hunt, no matter how slim." — The Posting of the Hunt
"Who has not heard of the Trials of Rahni'Za? Five they are, each a test of a warrior's mettle, until the hopeful champion is faced at last by the Trial of the True Path. Though many attempt it, few succeed." —The Unveiled Azadiyeh
"Weep for Shada, tears of grief. The endless years bring no relief." —Old Hammerfell Ballad
"The Seeker's Archive"—a curious name for something that appears to be a Yokudan temple. A dry, dusty draft seeps out from beneath the door, bearing the scent of a thousand, thousand libraries ….
The sewers beneath Elinhir were the greatest public work undertaken during the administration of Governor Pomptinus, who oversaw the region for the Second Empire from 1E 2820 to 2852.
The water swirling through the ancient structure and the darkness of the ruined depths hide a multitude of secrets within this forgotten Nedic temple.
The ancient city of Skyreach extended around, through, and beneath the Dragontail Mountains. One theory suggests the ancient Nedes took shelter in the ruined section known as the Hold when the Yokudans invaded.
Whatever this colossal onyx shard may be, one thing is certain: it comes from somewhere beyond the bounds of Tamriel. And the fabric of Tamriel may not be strong enough to contain its power.
Only the strongest and bravest warriors dare to face the challenges of the Dragonstar Arena.
When the warriors of the Ra Gada came to the shores of Hammerfell, some of the fiercest cohorts marched far inland in search of domains to claim. Hel Ra was one of the easternmost of these domains, but its gates were sealed long ago.
The crypts and catacombs beneath the Serk graveyard have been turned into the headquarters for the Maulborn quarantine. Here, the Maulborn supposedly develop a curative for the Llodos plague ravaging Deshaan.
For untold ages this tower has loomed over Elinhir, its portals mystically sealed, all entry forbidden. Someone exerted immense effort to place impenetrable wards on this place—but now those wards are sundered.
The Sanctum caverns are works of art, carved masterpieces sealed long ago. Unfortunately for Craglorn, the Ophidians were always the most … fervent of the Celestial sects.
The Omen of Betrayal went by many names throughout the First and Second Eras. High Elves of Summerset once knew it as "The Gray Sleep," while Argonians whisper of "the Egg-Terror." The Orcs of Orsinium still call it "The Visiting Breton."
This once-thriving mine on the outskirts of Daggerfall belonged to the Themond family before it fell into disrepair and was largely abandoned.
The ancient Nedes interred the dead of Skyreach within the massive chambers and passages beneath the city, both commoners and nobles alike.
This ancient Nedic temple, located in the depths of the Loth'Na Caverns, has been appropriated by agents of Regent Cassipia and the Scaled Court.
The highest section of the Skyreach ruins, Skyreach Pinnacle appears to have been some kind of Nedic summoning or experimentation chamber.
The Shadow Artisans of Vulkhel Guard may be outlaws, but they're still haughty High Elves, who pride themselves on keeping a hideout that's as aesthetically pleasing as it is functional.
The outlaws of Grahtwood have secretly excavated and occupied some of the extensive ancient ruins beneath Elden Root. Their chambers demonstrate that, while they may break the law, they still adhere to the Green Pact.
Underneath the modern, High Elven town of Marbruk lurk the ruins of a more ancient Elven settlement: the subterranean corridors of an Ayleid clan that fled to Valenwood when the White-Gold Tower fell to Alessia's slave army.
This refuge is the headquarters of the Gang of Scroungers. While "scrounger" has negative connotations in some cultures, that's not the case with Wood Elves—or with Wood Orcs.
The refuge below Rawl'kha is the haunt of the Darkmoon Prowlers, an "All-Khajiiti Gang" … which means they'll admit non-Khajiiti members, but only if they agree to wear a cat-mask.
It's rumored that members of the Dragonstar Caravan Company are known to frequent the outlaws refuge beneath Belkarth—rumors the caravaneers hotly deny.
Stormhaven is the territory of the criminal gang called the Midnight Union. It would be unwise to speak ill of them in the Wayrest outlaws refuge.
Most citizens of Daggerfall think the Red Rook Bandits are only found menacing travelers on wilderness roads. They'd never think to look for them under the cobblestones of their well-patrolled streets.
The outlaws refuge beneath Evermore is the place where members of the Bjoulsae Boys gang of northern Bangkorai can meet and do business with the followers of the Red Asp of Hallin's Stand, as well as the occasional Iliac Bay buccaneer.
It's said that, after King Ranser was defeated and slain, many families of his supporters, such as the Brancks and the Marcotts, went underground and took to criminal pursuits.
You wouldn't think it of folks who are as law-abiding as most Crowns, but since a Forebear ascended the throne, the Crown community seems just a little more tolerant of the criminal element in Sentinel.
The fact that the outlaws refuge in Davon's Watch is located in an abandoned and desacralized Tribunal Chapel might be deliberately ironic … but it's probably just evidence of opportunism.
Nord nautical entrepreneurs—"sea raiders" to those they "do business" with—find a place in every northern port where they can exchange their ill-gotten cargo for gold. Local back-alley footpads also find the outlaws refuge convenient.
Captain One-Eye doesn't confine her piratical pursuits to Alten Corimont—she's also on excellent terms with the crooked merchants lurking in the Barsaebic ruins beneath Stormhold.
Ilanadzeh the Fence: "This one does not understand: how could a hive of illegal activity continue to thrive under the very noses of the divine Tribunal?" Eldyme, smiling: "How, indeed?"
The Skull-Brethren of Riften dress like barbarians from the Reach, but that's just their gang colors. Most of them are local Nords, with a smattering of riff-raff from across the continent.
The tunnels beneath Mathiisen lead to the sea, and over the centuries various smugglers and criminal organizations have utilized them for a variety of purposes.
Way before the Balfiera Elves sealed this Ayleid ruin during the Direnni Hegemony, the Orcs used this place for a very different purpose—as you will see in these ancient memories ….
The Firemoth islets seem to float like forgotten derelicts on the surface of the Inner Sea, shrouded in mists that might hide all manner of crimes and corruption.
The prominent Andrano family has been among the leading members of House Redoran for generations.
The chief urban structure of Sotha Sil is known to its strange inhabitants as the Brass Fortress. Its brazen portals house secrets, some of them dangerous to know.
"Ordinary people keep a journal. Sotha Sil decided to store his memories as star-data in an artificial astronomical matrix keyed to his philosophical musings on the structure of the Aurbis. Of course." —Almalexia
The Clockwork City, also known as Sotha Sil, after its creator. is said to be a great and intricate mechanism that duplicates the mythic structures of Nirn in metallic miniature. Only Seht himself knows its true purpose.
The climate and weather systems of the Clockwork City may be simplified simulations of the weather of Nirn Above, but even simplified, these systems and the mechanisms that drive them are enormously complex.
Beneath the floors and behind the walls of the Clockwork City are labyrinths of maintenance tunnels and access ducts, many of them quite narrow, as they're made for the use of small fabricants and constructs.
"The Withering Hermit says the Shadow Cleft is just a gloom-dusk echo cast by Nocturnal's Evergloam," whispered the voice from the darkness. "But her wandering star fell long, long ago."
Some quests grant skill points as a reward upon completion.
When you collect three skyshards, you get one skill point. You can see the skyshards you have collected in your Achievements Window, as well as find hints about skyshard locations you might have missed.
Reading books from bookshelves will sometimes grant you a rank in one of your skill lines.
To dodge attacks, double-tap a movement key in the direction you wish to dodge.
At level 15, you can equip two weapons and swap between them during combat. You will also receive a different ability bar to match the swapped weapon.
You can't sprint and use abilities at the same time.
When you unlock weapon-swapping at level 15, you can decide to place the same type of weapon in both slots but select different abilities for your ability bar.
Powerful monsters lurk in the wilderness of Tamriel. Sometimes you will need help to defeat them. If you find one of these creatures, use the grouping tool to call for help.
Pay attention to the effect your abilities have on different types of monsters. Some powerful creatures are immune to certain effects, while whole groups of monsters might be resistant to others.
Explore different ability combinations on your ability bar. But remember, you can't change equipment or abilities while you're in combat unless you've unlocked weapon-swapping.
Sometimes you can reduce the legwork required to complete a quest by using the Intimidating Presence and Persuasive Will abilities during conversations.
Every once in a while, just pick a direction and run. Quests are everywhere, and exploration can reveal unexpected surprises, valuable treasures, and other rewards.
Wayshrines aren't just for resurrection. When you discover a wayshrine, you can use it to fast travel to other wayshrines you've visited.
Speaking to some NPCs or reading specific books in towns can reveal new locations on your map.
The art of lockpicking involves both sight and sound. Watch the tumblers, and when one trembles and begins to rumble, release it.
Fishing requires using the proper bait at the proper location. Your chances of getting a rare fish improve when more people fish at the same spot, but that can also make a fishing hole dry out faster.
Old books, notes, and journals can be found throughout Tamriel. Some just tell interesting stories, but others can unlock quests or provide clues to hidden treasures. Read everything!
If choices in a conversation show up in red, the choice presented is significant and cannot be reversed without abandoning the quest. Select your response carefully!
If you don't know what to do next in a quest, look for hints in the tracker text on the right side of your screen.
While using a cooking fire you can view recipes you've learned and ingredients required by unchecking the "have ingredients" and "have skills" check boxes.
Enchanters use three types of runestones to make glyphs: Aspect, Potency, and Essence. As long as you have one of each type, you will be able to create a glyph.
Items come in five quality levels represented by five colors: white, green, blue, purple, and gold. The colors signify the quality of the item in ascending order, but only for that particular level. For example, a gold level 10 item might be better than a green level 12 item.
To craft, you will need to locate an appropriate crafting station. These can be found in most towns, and sometimes even out in the wilderness.
Items with enchantments sometimes display lock icons in their tooltips. If an item displays a lock beside its enchantment, that enchantment cannot be replaced.
While using a crafting station anywhere in the world, all of the crafting materials stored in your bank will be available to use.
To add an enchantment to an item, right click the item and select "enchant." If you have a glyph of the appropriate level, you will be able to enchant that item.
There are three types of glyph categories that can be used to enchant item types: Armor, Jewelry, and Weapon.
Weapons with enchantments possess charges. If your weapon runs out of charges, you will need to recharge it using a full soul gem. If you have a full soul gem in your inventory, right-click on the weapon and select "charge."
Be sure to spend your skill and attribute points after you level up.
While in Cyrodiil, you can fast travel to any keep your alliance controls via the 'Transitus Shrine' network. You cannot travel to a keep when it is under attack or when other alliances control all of its resources.
You can resurrect yourself or another player on the spot if you have a full soul gem of appropriate level in your inventory.
Soul gems can be filled using the Soul Trap ability, found in the Soul Magic skill line, by casting the ability on a foe and killing it before the effect wears off. You must have an empty soul gem of appropriate level in your inventory to trap a particular soul.
Fleeing is a perfectly valid tactic if you wander into a tough situation. Find or craft better gear, use skill points, or level up a bit more, then come back to fight another day.
Adventuring takes its toll, so don't forget to check your gear every once in a while. Most merchants can repair damaged gear—for a modest fee, of course.
You can speak to other members of your guilds in guild chat by typing "/guild1," "/guild2," etc.
You can be a member of up to five guilds at the same time.
Want to sell items to other players? Guilds have built-in guild stores. Join a guild and sell them to other members.
If you need help completing a quest or a dungeon, try using the Group Finder Tool in your group window. It looks like a magnifying glass.
If you accidentally sell something to a merchant, you can buy it back from the buy-back tab of their store.
Solo instances will scale to your level. Group instances will scale to your group leader's level.